Add 11.13 release notes (#261)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-07-16-mondoo-11.13-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.13-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.13 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.13 release of Mondoo, with support for additional workflows, advanced scoring mechanisms, notifications on failing integrations, and more!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
image: /img/featured_img/release-feature.jpg
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.13 is out! This release includes support for additional workflows, advanced scoring mechanisms, notifications on failing integrations, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Exceptions for vendor advisories

> Exceptions can now be set on advisories, not just checks. To set an exception on an advisory navigate to the advisories page on your asset, and select the advisories you wish to snooze or disable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now set exceptions on advisories, not just checks. To set an exception on an advisory, navigate to an asset's Advisories tab and select the advisories to snooze or disable.
```

> For more information, [check out the documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/security/customize/advisories/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, read the [Mondoo documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/security/customize/advisories/).
```

![Selecting advisories to create exceptions](/img/releases/2024-07-16-mondoo-11.13-is-out/advisory_exception.png)

> ### Set scoring system per-policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Choose the security scoring system for each policy in a space
```

Mondoo policies support several different scoring systems, depending on how you want to weight the results of the policy. While the recommended scoring mechanism for each policy is built into the policy itself, you can now override the scoring mechanism used directly from the Mondoo console.

![Selecting a scoring system for a policy](/img/releases/2024-07-16-mondoo-11.13-is-out/scoring_selector.png)

### Failing integration notification

> Tokens may expire and accounts might change, but now you can quickly spot when integrations stop scanning as they should. Space owners will notice a new icon in the integrations menu whenever an issue arises. Plus, any failing integrations are highlighted on the integrations page, so you can identify the problem type at a glance without diving into each page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens may expire and accounts might change. Now you can quickly spot when integrations stop scanning as they should. Space owners will notice a new icon in the integrations menu whenever an issue arises. Plus, any failing integrations are highlighted on the Integrations page, so you can identify the problem type at a glance without diving into each page.
```

![Integrations showing failures](/img/releases/2024-07-16-mondoo-11.13-is-out/integrations.png)

#### Updated asset tables on individual checks

> The table of affected Assets table on each individual check page is now much more informative, showing last update time, additional risk factors, risk score, and asset name. It also supports multi-select for building targeted cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table of affected assets on each individual check page is now much more informative, showing last update time, additional risk factors, risk score, and asset name. It also supports multi-select for building targeted cases.
```

![Integrations showing failures](/img/releases/2024-07-16-mondoo-11.13-is-out/affected_assets_checks.png)

### Create cases directly from policy check pages

Cases are a new feature of Mondoo that allow you to turn security findings into tasks to complete. They integrate with Atlassian Jira to fit into your existing workflow.

![Mondoo Case Management Screen](/img/releases/2024-07-09-mondoo-11.12-is-out/screenshot_cases.png)

When you see a security finding that requires fixing, you create a case for that finding. Mondoo automatically includes the details of the finding, information on the asset(s) that contain the finding, and instructions for fixing it. When you save the case, Mondoo automatically creates an issue containing all the same information in your Jira project.

> To create cases from failing checks, simply open a check and click the 'Create Case' button to get started. You can also [check out the documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/cases/overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create cases from failing checks, simply open a check and click the 'Create Case' button. To learn more, read the [Mondoo documentation](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/cases/overview/).
```

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Updated CIS Windows 10 / 11 benchmark policies

> Secure Windows endpoints with the latest CIS Windows 10 and 11 benchmark policies version 3.0. This major version bump includes a large refactoring of the recommendations for securing Windows hosts including new and updated recommendations, improved descriptions / remediation text, and overall improvements to queries to ensure you always have the best output to work with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure Windows endpoints with the latest CIS Windows 10 and 11 benchmark policies: version 3.0. This major version bump includes a large refactoring of the recommendations for securing Windows hosts, including new and updated recommendations, improved descriptions and remediation text, and overall improvements to queries to ensure you always have the best output to work with.
```

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

> - Immediatly refresh asset check overview statistics when exceptions are set. - https://github.com/mondoohq/console/pull/4640

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Immediately refresh asset check overview statistics when exceptions are set.
```

- Fix incorrect check impact scores displayed on assets.

> - Ensure editors can't create API tokens with Owner privileges.

Author: ```suggestion
- Ensure editors can't create API tokens with higher privileges.
```

> - Fix incorrect check impact scores displayed on assets. - https://github.com/mondoohq/console/pull/4633

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix incorrect check impact scores displayed on assets.
```

> - Ensure editors can't create API tokens with higher privileges. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/7216

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure editors can't create API tokens with Owner privileges.
```
Am I understanding that correctly? I mean, there's only one step higher.

> - Allow sorting by blast radius in tables. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8328

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow sorting by blast radius in tables.
```

> - Fix policy check pages not showing all affected assets. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8626

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix policy check pages not showing all affected assets.
```

> - Don't include checks with exceptions in check counts. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/pull/8628

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't include checks with exceptions in check counts.
```

> - Expand the data included in data exports to include space metadata, base score, and risk score. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8649

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expand the data included in data exports to include space metadata, base score, and risk score.
```

> - Fix backwards sorting in risk score table columns. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8579

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix backwards sorting in risk score table columns.
```

> - Allow sorting of last updated time in affected asset tables. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/pull/8631

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow sorting by last updated time in affected asset tables.
```

> - Fix incorrect scores on versioned software pages. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8632

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix incorrect scores on versioned software pages.
```

> - Don't scan Azure Storage Containers as part of the `--discover all` command line option. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/issues/8660

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't scan Azure Storage containers as part of the `--discover all` command line option.
```

- Use fully qualified Kubernetes names to ensure assets are unique.
- Show `cnspec status` output when the client fails to communicate with the platform.

> - Substantial improvements to the reliability of multiple Linux CIS benchmark queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Substantially improve the reliability of multiple Linux CIS benchmark queries.
```

> - Fix format changes introduced to the CSV data export that were not backwards compatible. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/pull/8673

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix format changes introduced to the CSV data export that were not backwards compatible.
```

> - Fix some CI scan results failing to load in the console. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/pull/8670

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix some CI scan results failing to load in the console.
```

> - Use more consistent names for out of the box data pack queries. - https://github.com/mondoohq/server/pull/8658

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use more consistent names for out-of-the-box data pack queries.
```
